Hello everyone! In this tutorial, we will install all the software we need.
If you are not a beginner and are already working with the Unreal Engine, then this tutorial can be skipped.
All software that we will be using is absolutely free.
Let's start with Visual Studio. Download the installation file for Community version 2019.
Run it.
Click continue. We are waiting for the installation program for Visual Studio.
I will speed up the video in many places for obvious reasons.
The hub Visual Studio was opened, with which you can install various components, programs,
development tools for various platforms, programming languages, and so on.
We need to select in the category gaming game development with C ++. On the right you can see
what will be installed directly. Most likely you do not have .net installed.
It is also required for the Unreal Engine to work correctly.
We will take this step a little later. We are waiting for all the necessary packages to be downloaded and installed.
While we are waiting, let's also download Unreal Engine in parallel.
Go to the site unrealengine.com Unreal Engine is also installed using a special
program called Epic Launcher. This is a hub program with which you can
install different versions of the engine. It also gives you quick access to all
your projects. There is also a game store and an asset store. You will need an Epic Games account
if you don't have one. You can download Epic Launcher without this account,
but you won't be able to access it without an account. You can add an account using
one of the available services, or completely create it from scratch using only mail.
We return to the main page. In the upper right corner, click on the download button.
We select the Publishing License option. Scroll down the page and click on the download now button.
The Epic Launcher installer is being downloaded.
We launch the installer. Click on the install button. During installation , Windows pop-up windows are
also possible , in which you need to give administrator access. In each of these
windows, we naturally provide access. The page also has a video from Unreal
describing the installation. We are waiting for the installers to complete their work.
So Epic Launcher is installed. Let's log in.
Also, when logging into your account, a two-factor authorization request is possible. In this case,
you will additionally have to enter an access code, which will be sent in a letter to your mail.
The Epic Launcher has opened. We need to go at the top to the library tab.
All versions of the engine will be located here. Click on the "+" button. We can install absolutely
any binary version of Unreal Engine. Naturally, we choose the last 4.26.
Click on install. It is also possible to have several different versions at the same time.
We agree with the terms of use. We put the checkbox. Click accept.
Select the location on the disk where we want to install Unreal Engine. And we also check that we have a
checkmark in front of the Engine Source field. In the course, we will often go
inside the Unreal Engine source code, so it is advisable that you also have the source code.
Click the apply and install button. Again we will have to wait.
In the meantime, we have installed Visual Studio and all the necessary components.
A Microsoft account is not required to work with the community version, but I also recommend that
you create one, it is convenient, because Visual Studio will remember all your
settings regarding the account. For now, you can click on not now. Next, you are asked
to choose a color scheme. I use dark colors. Click on start Visual Studio.
The main Visual Studio window opens. We can already start working with the code.
Create some kind of console application. Let's wait until Unreal Engine is
installed and check out Visual Studio and Unreal Engine together.
Unreal Engine is installed. We launch it.
In the Windows window, click allow access. The Unreal Editor starts up.
The project creation assistant has opened. We'll talk about it a little later, but now we select
games on the first screen. On the next screen, the project blank. Click next. Choosing a
C ++ project. We do not touch all other settings. Select the directory
where we want to create the project. We name it test project and click the create button.
We have a mistake. As I said at the beginning, we will need to install .net. Unreal Engine has
additional routines that require the installation of .net. Using the
Visual Studio installer, we can add or remove the components we need. We open it again.
Click on the modify button.
And in the components, in the desktop and mobile categories, select .net desktop development.
Everything was established. We close the installer.
Also close the error window and click on create project again.
There is no more error. The process of creating a project has begun.
The project was successfully created. Unreal Editor is working.
We also have a Visual Studio project created. Let's close the editor.
Visual Studio should be open, if not, then you can run the solution from your project
directory . Our project can be seen in the solution explorer. We will talk about the internals of the project a
little later, directly in the lessons. At the bottom you can change the font size.
Click on the combobox and select, for example, 150 percent. Click on the local
windows debugger button with a green triangle. Unreal Editor runs under the Visual Studio debugger.
In general, we have installed all the necessary components to start development.
Visual Studio and Unreal Engine. We close all windows. Epic Launcher tells us that it wants to see
all our projects. It will be guided by the .uproject file. Click on fix now. We go to the
library and now we will have quick access to all our Unreal projects through the Epic Launcher.
Let's go back to the browser.
All links will be added to the lecture. You
can also read about the process of installing and configuring Visual Studio on the Unreal documentation site .
Let's go further. I highly recommend using the git version control system during development.
All source codes of projects can be downloaded without using git, but in the modern world
without version control there is nowhere and if you still do not use git, then it's time to start doing it.
You can download git from the official site. The site also has detailed documentation
and a free book on using git can be accessed. We launch the installer.
Click next everywhere.
Git is installed. We will see how to clone a repository in the next lesson.
Next, I recommend downloading some git interface program.
For example, it could be smart git. It's free for non-commercial use. Perfect for educational purposes.
Another popular option is the source tree. It's completely free. It is a product of
Atlassian, which also develops jira and confluence. There are actually
quite a few git user interface programs . You can google it. Jump. Try
and find the most suitable one for yourself. Globally, they all have the same essence. And the last moment.
Consider it for everyone. In the next lesson, we will also download the source archives, so
if you do not have an archiver in your system, I recommend downloading and installing the free 7zip.